OSDOCS-2439: Adding section for defining conditionTypes to (#54165)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/determining-upgrade-viability-conditiontype.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/index.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="determining-upgrade-viability-conditiontype_{context}"]
= Determining upgrade viability with conditionType

> The status of cluster operators is revealed with the value of conditionType, informing you of potential impacts to upgrading your cluster. 

Reviewer: It is probably worth telling folks if we're talking about ClusterVersion, ClusterOperator, or both.  And maybe worth talking about user interfaces (`oc adm upgrade` and `oc get clusteroperators` on the command line, and `/k8s/cluster/config.openshift.io~v1~ClusterVersion/version` and `/settings/cluster/clusteroperators` in the web console)?  Or link to this section from existing docs discussing those UIs?  Or something...

Author: Great point - making sure I understand, you mean how/where folks can find this status in the first place? :)

Reviewer 2: > It is probably worth telling folks if we're talking about ClusterVersion, ClusterOperator, or both

When we put a lot of conditions or push the reader to decide which content is applicable to which operator that's makes it less readable. So I am fine with the current text.

Reviewer 2: > Or link to this section from existing docs discussing those UIs? Or something...

I agree that it might be worth pointing out how users can see these status condition.

* Available: 
The conditionType `Available` indicates that the operators are functional and available in the cluster. If the status is `Available=False`, then the status indicates that at least one part of the operand is non-functional and the condition requires an administrator to intervene.

* Progressing:

> The conditionType `Progressing` indicates that the operator is actively rolling out new code, propagating configuration changes, or otherwise moving from one steady state to another. Operators should not report as `Progressing` when they are reconciling a previous known state. If the observed cluster state has changed and the operator is reacting to it, then the status should report back as `Progressing=True`, since it is moving from one steady state to another.

Reviewer: > Operators should not report as `Progressing` when they are reconciling a previous known state.

The "should" here and in the following sentences are inherited [from godocs][1], and seem like they are encouraging operator maintainers to pay attention.  But the context in these new docs, where we're trying to explain how readers consume the fields and not also talking to operator-maintainers setting them, we might want a more imperative:

> Operators report `Progressing=False` when they are reconciling...

and similar.  And if a condition consumer notices an operator violating the nominal imperative (e.g. with `Progressing!=False` while reconciling a previous known state), they can open a bug against that operator.

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/cce310ad2932f6de24491052d506926e484c082c/config/v1/types_cluster_operator.go#L152-L158

* Degraded:
A `Degraded` conditionType indicates that the operator's current state does not match its desired state over a period of time. The period of time may vary by component, but a `Degraded` state represents persistent observation of a condition.  As a result, a component should not fluctuate in and out of the `Degraded` state.  
+
A service may have the conditionType `Available`, even if it is degraded. This indicates that the service is `Available` but `Degraded` because it may have a lower quality of service. 
+

> There may be a different conditionType if the transition from one state to another does not persist over a long enough period to report `Degraded`.  

Reviewer: Maybe we can drop this line?  I'm having a hard time imagining how reading it will help a condition consumer with a particular action.  Perhaps a generic statement at the top of the section something like:

> The following condition types have consistent semantics across all ClusterVersion and ClusterOperator conditions.  Individual components may also have additional condition types with component-specific semantics.

to explain that the list of condition types is not exhaustive?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/index.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="Understanding-upgrade-viability-conditiontype_{context}"]

> = Understanding upgrade viability with conditionType

Reviewer 3: It's weird to see conditionType not being marked up as monospace (`conditionType`). Maybe work around it with `= Understanding cluster operator condition types` and just leave the mention about impact to the paragraph?

The status of cluster operators is revealed with the value of conditionType, informing you of potential impacts to upgrading your cluster. 
This information can be retrieved in either YAML or JSON format through the `oc get clusterversion -o` command:

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get clusterversion -o YAML

Reviewer 3: Most people will not capitalize the YAML in the command (it seems that the rest of the docs use `-o yaml` in these listings, too)

----

* Available: 

> The conditionType `Available` indicates that the operators are functional and available in the cluster. If the status is `Available=False`, then the status indicates that at least one part of the operand is non-functional and the condition requires an administrator to intervene.

Reviewer 3: Can we speak about "condition with type `Available`? Speaking about conditionTypes in sentences looks really awkward.

Reviewer 3: I think it would also probably use a "If its status is `False`" instead of the "status is `Available=False`. Condition is an entity which has a type (Available) and status (True/False) and more (irrelevant here).

* Progressing:
The conditionType `Progressing` indicates that the operator is actively rolling out new code, propagating configuration changes, or otherwise moving from one steady state to another. Operators should not report as `Progressing` when they are reconciling a previous known state. If the observed cluster state has changed and the operator is reacting to it, then the status should report back as `Progressing=True`, since it is moving from one steady state to another.

* Degraded:
A `Degraded` conditionType indicates that the operator's current state does not match its desired state over a period of time. The period of time may vary by component, but a `Degraded` state represents persistent observation of a condition.  As a result, a component should not fluctuate in and out of the `Degraded` state.  
+

> A service may have the conditionType `Available`, even if it is degraded. This indicates that the service is `Available` but `Degraded` because it may have a lower quality of service. 

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we can find a clearer wording that clearly communicates that `Degraded` is really not that bad. Available=False is really bad and should scare people. Degraded=True should not scare people - it's the platform doing its job and communicating that something may need investigation and fixing.

+
There may be a different conditionType if the transition from one state to another does not persist over a long enough period to report `Degraded`.  

> A service should not report `Degraded` during the course of a normal upgrade.  A service may report `Degraded` in response to a persistent infrastructure failure that requires eventual administrator intervention.

Reviewer 3: This sentence seems to be (operator) developer-oriented rather than administrator oriented.  Also, we do not speak about "services" in the previous descriptions, just in this one. We should probably use consistent terminology.

Reviewer: +1 to "operator" or "component" instead of "service" here.  [The API Godocs][1] this paragraph is descended from use "component".

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/cce310ad2932f6de24491052d506926e484c082c/config/v1/types_cluster_operator.go#L171-L173

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/index.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="Understanding_clusteroperator_conditiontypes_{context}"]
= Understanding cluster operator condition types

> The status of cluster operators is revealed with condition type, informing you of potential impacts to upgrading your cluster. 

Reviewer 4: I think reading this without already knowing the context, I don't immediately get what condition type is supposed to be from this first sentence. Is it a property, a value, or is it more like "the condition type of the operator", without any specific noun/syntax used to describe it? Can it be more specific?

I'd suggest changing `revealed with condition type` to `revealed through their condition type` if condition type isn't described by another noun.

Reviewer 4: Also, sort of a nitpick, but maybe there is a stronger word choice than "revealed", such as "shown" or "displayed". Not sure though, feel free to ignore this point.

> The status of cluster operators is revealed with condition type, informing you of potential impacts to upgrading your cluster. 

Reviewer 4: Suggested rewrite: The status of cluster operators is shown through conditions, which inform you of potential impacts to upgrading your cluster.

Reviewer: We're in the updates section at the moment, so I don't mind "potential impacts to upgrading your cluster".  But conditions are more generically about component status, and not only scoped to updates (e.g. `Upgradeable` is scoped to thoughts about future updates, but `Available` is interesting regardless of whether a component is updating or considering future updates).  [The API docs][1] have:

> ... represents the state of the operator's managed and monitored components.

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/cce310ad2932f6de24491052d506926e484c082c/config/v1/types_cluster_operator.go#L112-L113

> The following condition types are consistent across all ClusterVersion and ClusterOperator conditions. Individual operators may also have additional condition types with operator-specific language.

Reviewer 4: Word choice for the second sentence: "Some" instead of "individual" in my opinion

* Progressing:
An operator with the condition type `Progressing` is actively rolling out new code, propagating configuration changes, or otherwise moving from one steady state to another. 
+
Operators do not report as `Progressing` when they are reconciling a previous known state. If the observed cluster state has changed and the operator is reacting to it, then the status will report back as `True`, since it is moving from one steady state to another.
+
* Degraded:
An operator with the condition type `Degraded` has a current state does not match the desired state over a period of time. The period of time may vary by component, but a `Degraded` state represents persistent observation of an operator's condition.  As a result, an operator will not fluctuate in and out of the `Degraded` state.  
+
There may be a different condition type if the transition from one state to another does not persist over a long enough period to report `Degraded`.  
An operator will not report `Degraded` during the course of a normal upgrade.  An operator may report `Degraded` in response to a persistent infrastructure failure that requires eventual administrator intervention.
+
[NOTE]
====

> This condition type can seem alarming, but it is only an indication that that something may need investigation and adjustment. As long as the operator is available, the `Degraded` condition does not cause user workload failure or application downtime.

Reviewer 4: This sounds maybe a little too conversational and/or wordy at the beginning for me. Maybe consider rewriting the first sentence to `This condition type is only an indication that that something may need investigation and adjustment.`? Not the biggest deal either way

Author: good point :)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/index.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="Understanding_clusteroperator_conditiontypes_{context}"]

> = Understanding cluster operator condition types

Reviewer 5: [capitalizing "Operator"](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#operator):
```suggestion
= Understanding cluster Operator condition types
```

> The status of cluster operators is revealed with the condition type, informing you of potential impacts to upgrading your cluster. The following definitions cover a list of some common ClusterOperator condition types. Some operators may have additional condition types with operator-specific language, which are not included here. 

Reviewer 2: > informing you of potential impacts to upgrading your cluster

status conditions are just not about upgrades. An operator can degraded any time during the life of a cluster. Just not during upgrades. So we should say `informing you of current state of operator health`

> The status of cluster operators is revealed with the condition type, informing you of the current state of your operator's health. The following definitions cover a list of some common ClusterOperator condition types. Some operators may have additional condition types with operator-specific language, which are not included here. 

Reviewer 5: [capitalizing "Operator"](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#operator) and some minor suggestions for removing past tense and negative constructions:
```suggestion
The status of cluster Operators includes their condition type, informing you of the current state of your Operator's health. The following definitions cover some common ClusterOperator condition types. Operators that have additional condition types and use Operator-specific language have been omitted.
```

> The following condition types have consistent wording across all ClusterVersion and ClusterOperator conditions. Individual components may also have additional condition types with component-specific language.

Reviewer: nit: I'm not clear on "consistent wording", but what this sentence is trying to say is that when you see an `Available=False` condition in a ClusterVersion or ClusterOperator, you can use the `Available` definition in these docs (or in [the Go API][1]) to understand the high-level meaning (e.g. "it's bad; send an admin") without having to bother to look at the condition's `reason` or `message`.  Maybe one of the following:

> The following condition types have consistent semantics across...
> The following condition types are consistent across...
> The following condition types have the same meaning across...

or something like that?

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/cce310ad2932f6de24491052d506926e484c082c/config/v1/types_cluster_operator.go#L146-L150

> The condition type, as well as additional informatin about your operator can be retrieved in either YAML or JSON format through the `oc get clusterversion -o` command:

Reviewer: nit: "informatin" -> "information", and possibly a detour-ending comma: "..., as well as ... your operator, can be"?

> The condition type, as well as additional information about your operator, can be retrieved in either YAML or JSON format through the `oc get clusterversion -o` command:

Reviewer 4: Should this start with "Condition types" instead of "The condition type"?

> Cluster version operator is responsible for collecting these status conditions from cluster operators and represents these is an way which will be easier for OCP administrators to understand the state of the OCP cluster.

Reviewer 5: Operator stuff plus ISG recommends against using statements like "user-friendly" or "easy to understand", so the below edit also includes a suggestion to avoid this:
```suggestion
The Cluster Version Operator (CVO) is responsible for collecting the status conditions from cluster Operators so cluster administrators can better understand the state of the {product-title} cluster.
```

[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get clusterversion -o yaml

Reviewer 6: `oc get clusterversion -o` might not be a good example because I rarely see degraded condition in clusterversion.

Reviewer 2: Degraded condition is a unhealthy condition , so not seeing it is a good thing. But when it is set then this command is the right command for it. So I disagree with @shellyyang1989

Author: okay - thank you both!

Reviewer 7: PTAL https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-3714 if I recall correctly, CVO would not report Degraded, but would have Failing instead!

Reviewer 6: Right, that's what I meant. CVO reports Failing condition when seeing cluster operators degraded.
Though Degraded=True is not a good thing, the doc is telling what Degraded means, so that we need to tell how Degraded is like by an example. So why not using a common CO yaml which has the four conditions? like authentication

```
# oc get co authentication -ojson | jq -r .status.conditions
[
  {
    "lastTransitionTime": "2023-01-20T02:06:53Z",
    "message": "All is well",
    "reason": "AsExpected",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "Degraded"
  },
  {
    "lastTransitionTime": "2023-01-20T02:14:37Z",
    "message": "AuthenticatorCertKeyProgressing: All is well",
    "reason": "AsExpected",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "Progressing"
  },
  {
    "lastTransitionTime": "2023-01-20T02:06:52Z",
    "message": "All is well",
    "reason": "AsExpected",
    "status": "True",
    "type": "Available"
  },
  {
    "lastTransitionTime": "2023-01-20T01:48:51Z",
    "message": "All is well",
    "reason": "AsExpected",
    "status": "True",
    "type": "Upgradeable"
  }
]
```

Reviewer 7: I also tend to think that the best example would be with all of them visible, unless we have a valid reason for sticking with CVO in this example. 
also, the PR that I've referenced above, mentions:
```
... Degraded is strictly a ClusterOperator thing. ClusterVersion fills a similar role with Failing (although it's not clear to me why folks decided against sticking with the same condition slug for the similar roles).
```
@wking is there a scenario where user can observe Degraded in cvo?  
sorry for the bikeshedding :)

Reviewer 2: May be we can explain the cluster version operator's failing status condition in a followup PR. The failing status condition is little weird as it  only exists for cluster version operator code but does not exists in openshift/api

Reviewer: > ... is there a scenario where user can observe Degraded instead of Failing CVO

Nope.  And to back that up for anyone who's skeptical, there's a code search:

```console
$ git remote get-url origin
ssh://github.com/openshift/cluster-version-operator.git
$ git --no-pager log --oneline -1
c5cdf424 (HEAD -> master, origin/release-4.14, origin/release-4.13, origin/master, origin/HEAD) Merge pull request #887 from petr-muller/upgradeable-code-cleanups-1
$ git --no-pager grep Degraded pkg/cvo/status.go
pkg/cvo/status.go:      // cannot reach the desired state. It is considered more serious than Degraded
```

And Telemetry, with:

```
group by (condition) (cluster_operator_conditions{name="version"})
```

giving:

```
{condition="Available"} | 1
{condition="Failing"} | 1
{condition="Progressing"} | 1
{condition="ReleaseAccepted"} | 1
{condition="RetrievedUpdates"} | 1
{condition="Upgradeable"} | 1
{condition="UpgradeableAdminAckRequired"} | 1
{condition="UpgradeableClusterOperators"} | 1
{condition="ImplicitlyEnabledCapabilities"} | 1
{condition="UpgradeableClusterVersionOverrides"} | 1
{condition="Invalid"} | 1
{condition="UpgradeableDeletesInProgress"} | 1
```

Author: @evakhoni @shellyyang1989 with this information above, are we clear to move into peer and merge reviews? Any other concerns?

Reviewer 7: @obrown1205 [shellyyang1989](https://github.com/shellyyang1989) is at PTO until next week. from my side this is the only one, however imo it is not solved yet. 
`The following condition types are consistent across all ClusterVersion and ClusterOperator conditions. `
is not the case for Degraded, as mentioned above.
`Condition types, as well as additional information about your operator, can be retrieved in either YAML or JSON format through the oc get clusterversion -o command`
again what exactly is `your operator` in this case? the command mentioned is specific to cluster version operator, (which also isn't the best example anyway). i find it a bit ambiguous when we're talking about cluster operators in general, but mentioning cvo as if explicitly the only place to look for conditions.

Reviewer 2: I agree that the sentence `The following condition types are consistent across all ClusterVersion and ClusterOperator conditions` is not 100% correct

Reviewer 2: Here are  my suggestions for the first paragraph is as follows
```
The status of cluster operators is revealed with condition type, informing you of potential impacts to upgrading your cluster.  We are listing some common ClusterOperator conditions types. Some operators may have additional condition types with operator-specific language which are not explained in this document. Cluster version operator is responsible for collecting these status conditions from cluster operators and represents these is an way which will be easier for OCP administrators to understand the state of the OCP cluster. 

Condition types, as well as additional information about the state of the cluster can be retrieved in either YAML or JSON format through the oc get clusterversion -o command:
```

Author: Applied the change - what do we want to do about the clusterversion command @LalatenduMohanty ?

Reviewer 2: ![Screenshot from 2023-01-30 11-43-59](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3125299/215541918-7e4bc4db-d7f0-4371-a235-cd6013cf0dcd.png)
Here is an example of how the status conditions shows up in webconsole

Author: @LalatenduMohanty Just making sure I understand - does this mean we should replace Degraded with Failing? And add the RetrievedUpdates, ReleaseAccepted, and ImplicitlyEnabledCapabilities conditions as well? If these are fairly common, it makes sense to me to add them. 

For this first iteration, what would you prefer to see?

Author: I notice that the message says "Cluster operator machine-config is degraded. Are we under the assumption that the reader is looking beyond the message and to the condition itself? I personally suspect that a user would look for the term "Failing" rather than Degraded, if that's the actual condition they receive.

Reviewer 2: > Just making sure I understand - does this mean we should replace Degraded with Failing?

Nope, degraded is an operator condition type. But CVO has an extra type as failing and it communicates this way.  So degraded as a condition type is still valid. As I suggested before we can explain `Failing` condition type later as a followup PR.

Reviewer 2: > For this first iteration, what would you prefer to see?

Lets track that in a separate Jira.  I am fine with explaining any condition type which is not easy to understand from its name.

Author: @shellyyang1989 @evakhoni @LalatenduMohanty @wking I've created https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OTA-872 to address the additions to condition types. The team would like to address these in a future PR.

@shellyyang1989 - I'm going to go ahead with the peer review and merge review processes. If you have any other concerns, please let me know and we can address them as well :) Can I consider this PR QE approved at this point with the knowledge we will add more in a future PR?

Reviewer 6: @obrown1205 It looks good to me. Thanks!

//$ oc get clusterversion -o yaml

> //----

Reviewer 5: Did you mean to leave these comments in?

Author: Yes - there is debate over this command and we decided to hold off on including it for now. We may revisit it in the future. :)

* Available: 

> The condition with type `Available` indicates that the operators are functional and available in the cluster. If the status is `False`, that indicates that at least one part of the operand is non-functional and the condition requires an administrator to intervene.

Reviewer 6: The condition with type `Available` indicates **whether** the operators are functional and available in the cluster.

> The condition with type `Available` indicates that the operators are functional and available in the cluster. If the status is `False`, then the status indicates that at least one part of the operand is non-functional and the condition requires an administrator to intervene.

Reviewer: nit: "If the status is `False`, then the status indicates", feels stuttery on "status".  Maybe:

> If the status is `False`, then the condition indicates...
> If the status is `False`, that indicates...

or some such?

> An operator with the condition type `Available` is functional and available in the cluster. If the status is `False`, at least one part of the operand is non-functional and the condition requires an administrator to intervene.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
An Operator with the condition type `Available` is functional and available in the cluster. If the status is `False`, at least one part of the operand is non-functional and the condition requires an administrator to intervene.
```

* Progressing:

> The condition with type `Progressing` indicates that the operator is actively rolling out new code, propagating configuration changes, or otherwise moving from one steady state to another. 

Reviewer 6: that -> whether

> An operator with the condition type `Progressing` is actively rolling out new code, propagating configuration changes, or otherwise moving from one steady state to another. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
An Operator with the condition type `Progressing` is actively rolling out new code, propagating configuration changes, or otherwise moving from one steady state to another. 
```

> Operators do not report as `Progressing` when they are reconciling a previous known state. If the observed cluster state has changed and the operator is reacting to it, then the status will report back as `True`, since it is moving from one steady state to another.

Reviewer 6: Operators do not report as `Progressing` -> Operators do not report `Progressing` as `True`

> Operators should not report as `Progressing` when they are reconciling a previous known state. If the observed cluster state has changed and the operator is reacting to it, then the status should report back as `True`, since it is moving from one steady state to another.

Reviewer: The "should" here are aimed at operator developers who are learning about how their operator should handle a new-to-the-dev condition.  But now that we're in customer/consumer docs, we can assume all the operator developers are on board, and we can say "Operators do not..." and "the status will report back...".  And similar for other "should" in this doc.  The assertions will be aspirational, and we'll sometimes fail to deliver, but anyone who sees us not delivering can open a case or bug, and we'll adjust the operators to do a better job living up to the docs.

> Operators do not report as `Progressing` as `True` when they are reconciling a previous known state. If the observed cluster state has changed and the operator is reacting to it, then the status will report back as `True`, since it is moving from one steady state to another.

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure how to rephrase this to avoid the "as _ as _", but here's one idea:
```suggestion
Operators do not report the condition type `Progressing` as `True` when they are reconciling a previous known state. If the observed cluster state has changed and the Operator is reacting to it, then the status will report back as `True`, since it is moving from one steady state to another.
```

* Degraded:

> The condition with type `Degraded` indicates that the operator's current state does not match its desired state over a period of time. The period of time may vary by component, but a `Degraded` state represents persistent observation of a condition.  As a result, a component will not fluctuate in and out of the `Degraded` state.  

Reviewer 6: The condition with type `Degraded` indicates that -> The condition with type `Degraded` indicates whether

> An operator with the condition type `Degraded` has a current state does not match the desired state over a period of time. The period of time may vary by component, but a `Degraded` state represents persistent observation of an operator's condition.  As a result, an operator will not fluctuate in and out of the `Degraded` state.  

Reviewer 5: ISG nits:
```suggestion
An Operator with the condition type `Degraded` has a current state that does not match the required state over a period of time. The period of time can vary by component, but a `Degraded` state represents persistent observation of an Operator's condition.  As a result, an Operator will not fluctuate in and out of the `Degraded` state.  
```

+

> There may be a different condition type if the transition from one state to another does not persist over a long enough period to report `Degraded`.  

Reviewer 5: ISG nit to avoid "may":
```suggestion
There might be a different condition type if the transition from one state to another does not persist over a long enough period to report `Degraded`.  
```

> An operator will not report `Degraded` during the course of a normal upgrade.  An operator may report `Degraded` in response to a persistent infrastructure failure that requires eventual administrator intervention.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
An operator will not report `Degraded` during the course of a normal upgrade.  An operator can report `Degraded` in response to a persistent infrastructure failure that requires eventual administrator intervention.
```

[NOTE]
====

> This condition type can seem alarming, but it is simply an indication that that something may need investigation and fixing. As long as the component is available, the `Degraded` condition does not cause user workload failure or application downtime.

Reviewer 6: Dupe `that`

> This condition type is only an indication that something may need investigation and adjustment. As long as the operator is available, the `Degraded` condition does not cause user workload failure or application downtime.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This condition type is only an indication that something might need investigation and adjustment. As long as the Operator is available, the `Degraded` condition does not cause user workload failure or application downtime.
```

====
+
* Upgradeable:

> An operator with the condition type `Upgradeable` indicates whether the operator is safe to upgrade based on the current cluster state. The message field will contain a human-readable description of what the administrator needs to do for the cluster to successfully update. The cluster-version operator will allow updates when this condition is `True`, `Unknown` or missing. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
An Operator with the condition type `Upgradeable` indicates whether the operator is safe to upgrade based on the current cluster state. The message field will contain a human-readable description of what the administrator needs to do for the cluster to successfully update. The CVO allows updates when this condition is `True`, `Unknown` or missing. 
```

+

> When the `Upgradeable` status is `False`, only minor updates are impacted, and the cluster-version operator will prevent the cluster from performing impacted updates unless forced.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When the `Upgradeable` status is `False`, only minor updates are impacted, and the CVO prevents the cluster from performing impacted updates unless forced.
```

> When set on ClusterVersion, the message will explain which updates (minor or patch) are impacted. When set on ClusterOperator, the `False` status will block minor (4.y to 4.y+1) OpenShift updates. The message field will contain a human-readable description of what the administrator needs to do for the cluster or operator to successfully update. The cluster-version operator will allow updates when this condition is not `False`, including when it is `True`, `Unknown` or missing.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph is confusing as it is not a general knowledge the difference between cluster version and cluster operator.

Reviewer 2: `When set on ClusterVersion, the message will explain which updates (minor or patch) are impacted`  gives the impression that it is usual for ugradeable=false to block patch lavel upgrades. Which is not correct and can mislead the reader.

> When set on ClusterVersion, the message will explain which updates (minor or patch) are impacted. When set on ClusterOperator, the `False` status will block minor OpenShift updates. The message field should contain a human-readable description of what the administrator should do to allow the cluster or operator to successfully update. The cluster-version operator will allow updates when this condition is not `False`, including when it is `True`, `Unknown` or missing.

Reviewer: nit: [the `Upgradeable` Godocs][1] assume the reader is familiar with [SemVer `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` naming][2].  In customer-facing docs, it may be worth giving placeholder examples for "minor" and "patch", like:

> When set on ClusterOperator, the `False` status will block 4.y to 4.y+1 minor OpenShift updates.

or:

> When set on ClusterOperator, the `False` status will block minor (4.y to 4.y+1) OpenShift updates.

or something.

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/cce310ad2932f6de24491052d506926e484c082c/config/v1/types_cluster_operator.go#L179-L190
[2]: https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html#summary
